That's something. Get,
get yourself to a physical therapist And get an MRI and then spinal
decompression, the whole deal you can science-based absolutely. He goes,
what do you think about chiropractors? And I go, so I say,
I think chiropractors are. And then, uh, he goes really? I go, yeah, I go,
I've just had bad experiences with it.
And then I've read some things about it being.
And then I got home after the podcast and I smoked a joint.
And a lot of times when I smoked pot, I feel bad about some of the things
I rarely do. Do you it's I, I, I smoke more than the average scientist.
My boyfriend is a director of R and D at a pot.
Lab. Oh yeah. So there's, there, there is some.
Pot kicking around on a regular basis.
Well, we get it free from a bunch of people.
I have to tell people it shows I'm no disrespect to people that offer it to me.
I'm like, please don't give me any pot. I can't take your pot.
I have too much pot w wait, we have a similar problem. Um,
so anyway, I smoked the pot and then I go, God, maybe I'm a Dick.
Maybe that was rude Saint.
Cause I know people that are chiropractors and I know they're nice people.
And I know they mean well, and I'm like, okay, maybe I'm a Dick.
I think that's accurate. I think they mean, well, some of them sure. Yeah,
I think they're wrong. But they mean, well, so, um, I go,
maybe I was being a Dick.
So then I Google chiropractic and then I started reading
and I spend hours and hours reading about the history of CA
I'm going to say this in air, big air quotes, chiropractic meds.
Holy.
Not only do I and not feel bad now, now I'm angry at all it,
and this is to all you people.
And I've got a and messages from chiropractors that I'm sure nice
folks. And they're really upset because they liked this podcast.
And they're like, you know, you're, you're on my business. And you said,
you have to understand. I it's, I'm sure a lot of you are mean, well,
I'm sure a lot of you do well,
I'm sure a lot of you try really hard to help your patients. And I'm,
I'm sure a lot of you incorporate a lot of other stuff like massage
and cold laser and real science into your therapies.
But the original, the origin,
the original guy who created chiropractic medicine was a complete
total artist just right here. This,
this character.
Daniel David Palmer. So it.
Started as a magnetic healer in Davenport, Iowa.
I mean the whole thing is a hundred percent and horseshit. And I mean, we.
This article that we wrote, we sent this through a, I mean,
normally my articles, they go through at least, you know,
two editors give or take this one we put through, I believe three editors,
a fact checker and our lawyer to make sure that we were Bulletproof on it
because we wanted to make sure that we, you know, that,
that we didn't say anything that could get us sued. Uh, basically.
And a lot of the information from this came directly from his book,
from his own books. So we weren't taking anything out of context.
One of the quotes on how chiropractic started,
came directly from the book and he, after, um, after cracking, uh,
a half deaf person's or a deaf person's phone.
That was the, that was what Jamie just had pulled up in that article.
Pull it back up, Jamie. So you could see that. Yeah.
He claimed that he cracked a deaf person's back and restored his healing or his
hearing. Now a couple of things could have happened here. Either one,
there was no actual medical consent given because this person was deaf. Uh,
so I'm not sure how, uh, how that came about, uh, two,
he didn't actually restore the hearing because there are no nerves in the spine
connected to your hearing, uh, or, you know, three, this guy is just lying.
Like there's, there are a couple, you know, and we're not sure what happened,
but he, like, there are still, and, you know,
chiropractic could have done a few things with this.
They could have disavowed what happened and said, you know,
we still have a system by which we can really try to relieve pain through spinal
manipulation, but no, there are still articles out today, uh,
from chiropractors today that try to claim that yes, indeed.
He did restore hearing because I'm mostly like, no,
could you guys just maybe back down on some of the nut of your claims,
because there, there is some,
some minor evidence that you can relieve back pain,
lower back pain with spinal manipulation. And there are, there are, uh,
chiros that are trying to be science-based with this,
but the history of it is so ridiculous and they try to back down on nothing and
that's not how science works.
Science works with the newest evidence and it tries to figure out what's real
and what's not. And they try to double down on all the craziest stuff.
And I think there are Kairos that are trying to fix the field maybe and say,
you know, spinal manipulation can help with back pain,
but that's not what this claims.
It claims that you can fix everything in the body,
through these vertebral subluxations that have never been shown what is a
subluxation? So there are a couple there's,
there are two terms being used here and chiropractic uses it incorrectly.
And in medicine we use it correctly. So a subluxation, the,
the actual medical term means that a joint pops out halfway.
So you have a dislocation, which is a complete, uh, you know,
separation of a joint basically. And a subluxation is a partial dislocation.
I know because they happen to my shoulder. There they're a fun party trick.
I'll spare you. Uh, but a subluxation in the chiropractic sense,
they use this medical term kind of incorrectly.
They say that your spine can be somewhat out of joint basically.
And it causes all your health problems.
Like your pancreas is malfunctioning because your spine is out of alignment and
it's, that's never been proven to happen.
And they claim that they can put you into a state of health by massaging your
back.
Right? And here's, what's important about this.
This was created out of thin air by a guy who was a quack.
The origin is not based on years and years of medical
research. None of this, all of this came from the 18 hundreds,
from a guy who was completely full of. Yep.
And he was, he was a magnetic healer now magnetic healing.
Like you can still see at the store,
these little like knee braces that have magnets in it, guys, save your money,
just get a regular old knee brace. If you feel any,
any relief from one of those magnetic braces, it's just from the brace.
It's not the magnets. Yeah, exactly. Placebo effects are. I mean,
the, the placebo effect is a real thing. You can get some relief from that, but.
Which may also account for some of the pain relief from chiropractic medicine.
Absolutely. I mean, they're doing exactly like they're,
they're doing some massage along with what they're doing.
And some of them, because massage actually helps.
And there,
there are studies that show people who go to a massage therapist or a massage
practitioner tend to get more relief than people who go to, uh,
to a chiropractor. So please go to a massage therapist, go to a, uh,
to a physical therapist. Those are,
those are your science-based practitioners chiropractic.
It started out of and it stayed directly in.
Like there's no reason that anybody would have from this
guy, from this one original guy who created it, this guy who,
a magnetic healer who came up with this somehow or another it's slipped through
the cracks. I mean, that's what this is. I mean,
they're running around calling themselves doctors. So this guy said to me,
one of these guys who got angry at me, I've gotten at least two dozen,
maybe angry messages from chiropractors. But one of them, the guy said,
does a podiatrist go to medical school? Well, the they go to podiatry school.
Not only that they take,
they have a medical residency that they have to do for three years. They D they,
they actually go to a hospital to work in a hospital and they put dietary
is like an actual science of studying the foot.
And some of them are, I could be wrong on this.
Someone go ahead and please fact check me.
I believe some of them are pediatric surgeons.
Like they have to know all the anatomy of the feet in order to treat actual foot
conditions. They are like, these are part of the medical system, uh,
chiropractic works kind of separately and on theories that, uh,
that have never been proven to work. They can't even do imaging like half.
I believe something like half of chiropractic clinics don't even have x-rays.
So how can they show you a hundred percent for sure that what they're claiming
is happening in your back isn't happening. And I read, I mean,
these are statistics that I found straight from chiropractic websites from their
organizations. Um, and I, I had this, uh, referenced in the article.
I just am blanking on which place had this,
one of the chiropractic boards that does large-scale surveys, you know,
within chiropractic, uh, about half. There were a lot of places.
A lot of people I'm sure said to you, but my chiropractor is good.
My chiropractor doesn't do the stuff. And a lot of my friends said that too.
They said, no, they just crack my back.
They don't try to sell me any supplements.
About half of chiropractors do the stuff. They do the extra,
the extraneous wellness stuff. So when, if you have a 50,
if you're playing Russian roulette and you have a 50% chance of getting a, uh,
or getting a bullet, are you going to do that? No, like that's,
I don't want a 50% chance of having a doctor. Who's like, well,
maybe your cold's really a German. You know, maybe it's a Bulla.
I don't want the doctor. I want the guy who knows what he's talking about.
And this is what you're getting with chiropractic. You're getting a doctor.
And it's even.
If you're doctor isn't,
this part of the problem is that they call themselves doctors.
I didn't know until this year or until when I was checking in on this,
they don't go.
To medical school. No, they go to co chiropractic schools. Now,
one of the biggest chiropractic schools in the country is a Palmer chiropractic
college. And that's named for DD Palmer, the guy who launched,
launched this bevy of on us. And he.
And after that guy, then the guy who claimed to heal the deaf guy, one.
Of one of my, now this is crazy. So it worked.
This is going to be a fun story by fun. I mean, horrifying.
One of the guys I went to undergrad with, uh,
went to Palmer chiropractic college. Now the acceptance rate,
a hundred percent tuition, $34,000 a year to learn how to crack baby spines.
Now the guy I went to college.
With, you said, baby's fine. Some people do it. Some.
Do. Now it is a growing field in chiropractic.
This one guy said, this is hilarious. He said,
you're saying they crack baby spots. It's a gentle manipulation. Like why? Yeah.
Here's the thing. Why, why the are you manipulating babies?
There's no evidence whatsoever that that helps babies.
The babies aren't complaining about back pain.
Here are the two things that I've heard. One is, uh, is that it's so gentle.
It wouldn't even bruise it tomato skin, then why are you doing it? Why now?
The other thing they say is because they can pay, they can charge parents.
That's why the other thing they say is, well from doing that, you, because,
and this is this, Hmm, this infuriates me so much. Um,
they say from manipulating the spine, because the spine has, you know, in,
within those bones,
they had the spinal column and the nerves control everything in the body.
And so from, from simulator, stimulating the nerves, you can give the infant,
all the immunity, it needs to not need their vaccinations.
And that's when I get really, oh yeah, they claim this. Hold on. Who's who's.
You got to say, be real specific.
He wasn't claiming that by manipulating a baby, they don't need vaccines. The.
This is now, this is, I understand this is not all chiropractors,
but the American chiropractic association,
and this is fairly well cited within the article,
the American chiropractic association, they are generally anti-drug.
They want to use the least amount of inter inter medical interventions possible.
And chiropractors are not in most states in this country.
They are not cleared to either prescribe or give vaccinations.
So if you can manage to get a family to come into you for pretty much all of
their medical needs, that increases your bottom line and it stops, you know?
And, and you can just say, we can do everything for you.
Where's the chiropractor isn't cleared for vaccinations. They don't,
they don't give vaccinations.
And I mean, one of there's one state in this country,
I believe it was Wisconsin, where they were trying to get chiropractors,
to be able to give pre sports physicals. And in, in some cases,
the pre sports physical is the only time all year when a student will see a
doctor. So this is, this is infuriating. So the like whenever a doctor,
and I mean, this is like, you can look at the ACS website. There is a,
put a couple of links to it in the article where they say, you know, they're,
they're not very Provax. And I mean,
their language on it is under the condition of freedom of choice,
medical choice. And it's like, they don't say straight out vaccines don't work.
They're bad for you, but they're kind of they're, wishy-washy on it.
And they're not, they don't say vaccines work and you should get them.
But a couple of chiropractors will try to say, we don't need vaccines.
We can increase your immune system. We can increase your immunity by, you know,
pressing on a spot. I'm like zero evidence, zero evidence. And I'm like,
do me a favor. Uh, tell me which spine,
which part of the spine you press on to give a child immunity to measles and
polio. Give me, tell me,
give me the titers test that child's titers to show me that they're immune to
polio. Now from you touching their spine. Maybe I it's like, how about this?
How about I'll punch you in the, I'm not going to punch a chiropractor.
How about I just, you know, not just give you a few little,
like a little pokes in the back, and then you're going to be immune to smallpox.
Just, just let me know how that works, but I can't,
I can't get behind a system that has no evidence and tells me it's going to make
children immune to death.
Here's the real question. How did it get this far? Like how, how did this guy,
who's a magnetic healer who had no background in medicine,
come up with this system and then have it spread all
over the world.
It's such a good story. Isn't it?
People love a story that says that you can heal them without, uh,
without taking dangerous drugs. And at the time.
I forget about medicine, it was drugs. I mean, even just,
just helping you with anything, it's really.
It's partially because of when it came up,
because we only found out 50 years after this, that, uh, that,
uh,
frontal lobotomies were a bad idea and that the lithium-ion was going to kill
babies. Uh, so we were,
we were really bad at medicine when this came up and we're, I mean,
we're way better at it now, but we still don't have the answers to everything.
And that's kind of, I don't want to say a failure of the medical system,
but it's just a sign of where we are now.
So think about the number of people who have sent us anecdotes, uh, saying,
you know,
I was in miserable pain and my chiropractor was the only thing that worked.
And it's like, maybe you needed to get, uh, you know,
get to physical therapy for longer term pain.
But these people that are still going to their Kairos,
it means they're still in pain. And they should go to a physical for, you know,
a couple months of therapy that will eventually strengthen their backs and take
care of those issues and, you know, get a massage,
but they're going to their Cairo because medical has not said, you know,
we don't have a tri-quarter that can scan you show the exact thing and say,
here's the exact medicine, drug and thing that will fix you. It's kind of,
and I hate to use this term,
but it's out of the failures of the medical system that something like this has
shown up. So we're not perfect at medicine yet.
And that's why alternative medicine swoops in with.
Well, it's just a matter of innovation. It's like,
there's a certain level that the medical community is at right now.
It's pretty staggering what they're capable of,
but it's still growing and learning and we're in a constant state of
progress,
but what's shocking to me is how far this medical healer or
magnetic healers, quack idea. God,
I just thought it was based on something. I mean, I really did.
I've been going to a chiropractor for years or different chiropractors for
years. And one of them was like, this guy used to go to Hollywood.
He's like 140 bucks.
And literally he would take care of you for like 10 minutes.
He would rub your back a little bit and massage a little bit and then he would
pop it and then go, we got it. We got it. And I'd be like, okay.
And I would think her head, man, maybe I'll start feeling better now.
Roller for 20 bucks that I can lend you a little crack your back really well.
So, well, yeah. Um, it's just,
it's just stunning to me that insurance companies pay for it.
And that it's been around so long. How did that happen?
How were insurance companies paying for it?
Some lobbying. And I don't think I put this into the article,
but there was a lot of lobbying from chiropractors in,
I believe the seventies that pushed the American medical association and, uh,
and the insurance companies as a whole to kind of accept them as being
medically, uh, a part of the system.
And that that's part of why more and more insurance companies now will cover
them and accept them. And even though like most doctors won't, uh,
like a lot of doctors won't, uh, refer you, they'll kind of be like, well,
you can look into Cairo. Like there's,
they're still from a lot of doctors push back. Uh,
but there's a little bit more coverage now just because of a lot of lobbying in
the seventies. Now.
If chiropractors do have a center or a treatment center or whatever it
is, and they have a bunch of different methods that they employ,
this is not saying that those other methods might not give you some relief,
but the actual cracking of the necks and the cracking of the back,
there's virtually no evidence that,
that heals anything or stops any,
or promotes your immune system functioning better or anything like that.
All these things that that's based on, it's.
Precisely like the big thing is that, I mean, there,
if they were just claiming we can reduce your back pain,
if that was the only thing they claimed,
I probably wouldn't have written the article, you know,
but what they're claiming is that they can fix all of your health by
realigning, these vertebral subluxations, which have never been proven exist.
So like, what are they doing.
When, when your back pops,
what is actually happening is there's nitrogen being released or something it's
just.
Moving around air bubbles. Like, I mean, tiny little bits of bubbles and yeah,
they are like, there, I don't think realigning is the right word, but you know,
they're, they're doing, they're,
they're moving around your back in a way that it kind of naturally moves because
you can kind of move and twist and your back will pop.
But like they're doing some manipulation of things that kind of naturally
happened to a, to a spine, uh, with, you know, with a tiny little bit, I mean,
tiny bit of degeneration with age.
I think like I'm not exactly the right expert to explain, uh,
this type of thing. And osteopath would be a better person to explain this.
Cause there's, uh,
there are people who are a little better at spinal manipulation than a
chiropractor, which is a DOE and osteopath.
So in this country we have MDs and dos and they both can practice medicine,
a doctor of osteopathy, a doctor of osteopathy.
I believe that's the correct term. And my doctor is actually, uh, my, uh,
primary care is an osteopath and he's given me a spinal manipulation once when
my back was killing me. And we had no idea what it was,
it turned out I had a broken rib,
which was not a good time to do a spinal manipulation.
We've got a rib broken right on your spine. Uh, but it was like, he, um,
the difference is an osteopath, never claims that they're, um,
they're cracking your back to try. Yeah, exactly. They're, they're giving you a,
they're giving you your vaccines. They're doing, you know, they're going, wow,
there's something wrong with your, with your ovary.
We're going to send you to a gynecologist like there,
they're doing all the things the doctors should do for your health.
And if your back is in pain, they'll say, do you want to try a manipulation?
They're not pushing that that's a part of their care.
And they try to do science-based, uh, you know, uh,
manipulations for the potential help of, uh, of,
uh, back relief. Uh, but they don't, you know, they don't want to do that.
Long-term they do it minimally. At least that's been my experience with it.
And it seems to be like it, there still seems to be,
I'd say at best weak evidence that it helps with, uh, with back pain,
the problem.
Is they usually do it with other things that also have been shown to help with
back pain massage, and also just rested it. Yes.
Breast ice anti-inflammatory. So are you.
Looking at all these different factors? Well,
I went to a chiropractor and he helped me [inaudible] are you sure? Yeah. Yeah.
And I mean, I think that it's, I think it's funny,
the things that chiropractors add into it,
cause like one of the things that they went into in this, uh, in this article,
cause we, we,
we really liked diving deep on some of the things that we investigate. Um,
and it's like, I try, I like, I I'll admit I'm biased when I go in. I,
cause I go after a lot of, uh, kind of some of the naturally things and I'm not,
I'm not anti natural. Like I, I'm not a hundred percent against like going.
To homeopathics, like, well it's funny cause we can, we can go.
Some of it's real, right?
Like garlic really is good for infections or some stuff that's legit.
For your heart gender. I love like when I have a stomach ache,
I'll go for ginger. Before I go for a remedies at work,
there are some herbal remedies that I'm like, absolutely keep them in your,
in your cabinet. I'm not against them,
but I'm against people taking things without evidence.
And I think that's the thing, like try it,
try absolutely it to look for the hard evidence, uh,
before you waste your money.
And I think that's the thing that people have fallen into. Cause they'll say,
oh, it's natural. It's better. It's like it is. Cause polio is natural.
And I don't think it's very good for you. Like, but I know,
I know that's a straw man fully aware of it,
but I also think that people should,
should ask for evidence and you never know and ask for it to mandate before you
give somebody your money.
And that's what people haven't done with chiropractors.
And that is the very good point.
And it's, you know, I, I think people deserve evidence and that's,
and I think that's something that hasn't been out in the public sphere.
Like there was an article I was trying to write a while ago. Um,
I forget the exact topic, but one of my editors, uh, you know,
sending it back to me credit, she's like, I've read that she, uh,
her comment back was, well, I've been reading this a lot online.
A lot of people have been saying this I'm like a lot of people have been saying
is not evidence. That's the exact opposite of it.
Like I'm like here I put in the peer review data on this.
I didn't work with her again. But she was, a lot of people have been saying,
that's not. And I mean,
this is why I like the editors I'm working with now quite a bit.
That's the problem.
With this whole clinic thing though,
is that they don't have to have any sort of background in keys,
kinesiology or in physical therapy or in any of these things.
And so they incorporate all these other modalities,
all these other methods of healing you,
but they don't have to have a background in education and those things,
and they're calling themselves a doctor.
There is, there is one thing I've heard of and this isn't,
this is why I'd say don't go to a chiropractor because we don't know.
You don't know what you're going to walk into.
But I have heard a couple of cases of times this being the case where a
chiropractor at first,
they go to school for physical therapy and then they find they can't open their
own clinic. Even if they've got like an MBA and a physical therapy background,
they're like, how do I open my own clinic?
And they realize if they just go to school for chiropractic,
they can do the physical therapy work they want to and offer a spinal
manipulation on the side.
How long does it take to get a degree in chiropractic? Like, how's it.
Going to get a doctor three, four years?
Like it's, I mean, it's a lot of school, but think about it. You learn, I had a,
how to crack spines.
It's created by a guy who's a quack.
What the could they possibly be teaching you for four years?
Uh, I do. They do learn some anatomy, but it's like, they also learned some,
you know, along with it. So I'm like, I wonder, I mean, this isn't, I get it.
This isn't all chiropractors obviously. But like I know,
and it's hard to figure out which one you're going to walk into.
That's going to be a artist and not so like, I,
I did want it like this isn't this wasn't the point I was going to bring up an
article that was going to have a specific point of view.
But like I know there are some out there that say, I, you know,
I want to give people physical therapy. I want to strengthen up their spine.
I want to get them out of here in less pain so that if they injured themselves
again, they know they can come back to me and trust me with their,
and also give them some relief while we're fixing them. So, you know,
this is a thing that happens, but I don't think it's all the time. It's. I mean,
he's clearly not all the time. So, you know,
you're going to have some really moral people in every field and you're going to
have some really up ones in every field. Like we were, uh,
one of the things we touched on in the article, uh, were these very, uh,
social media savvy people, and this is something that drives me crazy.
You have to hunt and Peck through their websites to find that they say that
they're a chiropractor. They just say, doctor everywhere.
Dr. And they're giving they're giving recipe ideas and they're giving,
and they're talking about the adrenal glands and the adrenal glands.
I don't know, they're not anywhere near close to the spine.
And this is the thing that they're talking about.
I'm like the adrenal glands are.
What are they talking about? Manipulating the spine to help the adrenal glands.
You're talking about.
One of the things we talk about a lot is adrenal fatigue syndrome,
which has never been proven to be a thing it's not recognized as a,
as a disorder, anywhere within the medical care system.
Now you can have a couple of different disorders of the adrenal gland you have,
uh, Cushing syndrome. Um, have like,
there are a couple of different things that can go wrong with your adrenal
glands. They're little glands that sit on top of the kidneys. Uh, but this is,
I mean the specialty, I believe, hold on a second,
I'm having a blonde moment on the words. Uh,
but like there's are on the subspecialty,
but the specialty for which you're going to study the Adriana lens,
isn't deemed as a specialty that chiropractic has. So it's like,
if you want to know about your, if you're having issues with that,
like it's like the, the things that chiropractor seemed to harp on right now,
or a lot with, uh, immunology or a lot with, uh, sorry,
just having a complete blonde moment on this. Uh, but there,
there are specialties that chiropractor seem to harp on a lot lately.
And it seems to be the type of things that are very nebulous and very hard to,
uh, to nail down when someone's having an issue with it. And these are,
these are things that chiropractors just don't have the training in.
So essentially someone's putting up a health website and they're claiming to be
a doctor and they're offering all this advice on diet and all these different
things. But when you get to what is their degree in,
it's not a real doctor, it's a chiropractor.